Communism ( worst)

  China but not following, north Korea, Cuba, USSR , Venezuela

  Everyone has equal rights. Trade unions form between workers so that industrialist cant exploit them.

  no external company can compete( no innovation)
  govt will manager everything not private industries( based on profit). It makes people lazy.  

  No free trade with other nations.

Capitalism -

  Countries resources owned by private and individuals.
  Based on profit
  external and internal competition
  Americans, India  follow. Democracy+ Capitalism = good idea
  Wealth redistribution in corporate companies- companies profit will be equally divided among the employees.

World War 1- The great war (1914 - 1918)

  Germany won the france- prussia( in germany) war.
  germany started investing in armies, weapons and industries.
  Power depends on number of colonies. Germany wanted more colonies as france and UK had.
  1.  UK + france made alliance.
  2. Germany + austria + italy = GUI= alliance

  Main cause was conflict between serbia + austria, serbia nationalist killed austria's prince

  So austria warned them for War. Serbia contacted Russia.

  Russia tried encrypted contact with France which germany catched. Germany wanted Italy to help but they backout.

  Germany attacked france through Belgium route but UK also helped France.

  Germany attacked Russia after long time when there was revolution going on. Russia has to withdraw from war and signed treaty with germany and gave many provinces to them. Germany became powerful

  UK attacked germany with naval forces(they had strong) but germany won by using torpedo for first time. Germany became Super Power

  but they attacked one USA ship because of which USA entered WW1 with UK, france russia and defeated Germany.

  WW1 ended in 1918


Treaty of Versailles( city in france)

  to officially end WW1. (11 am 11nov 1918)
  UK and France signed Armstice agreement with Germany.
  Allied nations(Uk france italy russia) signed treaty of Versailles with Germany to end war.

  Germany was held responsible for war and it loss and its allies. $132 billion fine and many restrictions.

  World war 2 started because of this treaty.

World war 2-
    France recaptured its states from germany.
    Two more countries poland and czech republic made from germany. Germany needed to repay loan of $312 billion. So he contacted big daddy USA

    Usa helped germany by financially but their economy crashed( known as depression year)

    Adolf hitler believed that weimer republic( gov of germany ) was responsible for worst situation of germany not uk or france.

    Hitler wanted to become leader. was jailed . Wrote book min calf ( autobio ). Made leader . Parallelly,   Benito Mussolini in italy, same as hitler. Both believed in Fascism( opposite to Democracy), Only one person will have full power.

    Hitler made NAZI( nationalist socialist german party) party. Made army and ammunination.

    Hitler recaptured czech republic but UK france didnt react at all.

    To capture poland, signed secret treaty with russia that they wont attack germany as hitler will give some provinces to russia and russia will give ammunination.

    Parallelly, Japan was also emerging as super power( defeated Russia in 1905). Attacked china and captured some area. China was facing civil war( communist vs nationalist).

    Russia was scared that japan and germany can attack.
    USA scared of japan.

    When germany attacked poland, UK france also made plans to attack hitler

    Phony war - between UK france and germany. No shooting for 8 months. Just waited.

    Germany attacked france. He surrendered. Uk contacted USA for ammunation. Usa sent ships but germany destroyed. USA in gussa with germany.

    Also USA captured Pearl harbour( island near japan ). Japan scared.

    USA collabed with russia

    Elite forces- USA,UK,france, russia
    Access forces- Germany and Japan

    USA attacked Hirosima and NAgasaki( in JAPAN ) in 1945
    with two nuclear bombs. Japan destroyed and surrendered.

    Russia attacked Germany. Hitler commits suicide. Mussolini in italy lynched( faansi) . Japan surrendered.

    WW2 ends.
